hi guys welcome back to my channel April
here so today I'm going to be doing a
Q&A in AMA and ask me anything whatever
you want to call it so I asked you guys
to send me some questions and I got a
load so I put them all up into like a
little email to myself and we're just
gonna run through them so the most
popular question on my channel on my
Instagram feed this is one that people
in person asked me the most and that
question is what is different about
fitness for petites for short women the
first part is that height and metabolism
are correlated so the shorter you are
the slower your basal metabolic rate
will be and that is how many calories
you burn at rest and I like to say if
you're just Netflix and chilling if you
lay in bed all day
that is your basal metabolic rate so
petite women to start off because we're
shorter we have less calories in a day
that we are going to burn by doing
nothing what this really means and why
this has an impact on our health is that
because we burn less calories we
therefore can't eat as many calories as
taller people without tipping into a
caloric surplus and then gaining weight
so you can see how this is actually very
important to the petite female diet and
also that also plays into Fitness
because you have to keep you have to
take that into consideration in terms of
how metabolically challenging are your
workouts as a petite because they should
be very metabolically challenging to get
your metabolism up and running to get it
faster because it is slower than taller
people and it also plays into Fitness
the fact that machines in the gym are
too big for petite women to use
effectively can I sit on the leg press
machine and kick my legs out back and
forth and press weight with my range of
motion just being like EEE yeah I can't
but it's not going to give me the most
efficient use of my workout absolutely
not the range of motion of these
machines in the gym is for taller people
for people of average height or taller
I'd even
I would say and therefore it's in some
cases unsafe for petite women to use and
also it is just not effective it's not
going to be the best workout you can get
in the gym and my thought is why waste
your time when you could just be killing
it in the gym and doing workouts that
are designed for your body right so
these are the two most important things
about why Fitness is different for
petites
one is that the metabolism and then of
course the size of equipment being not
being optimized for us and having to
switch over to something like free
weights kettlebells resistance bands
dumbbells that are much more suitable
for our range of motion and when we use
dumbbells and kettlebells and whatnot
then we can completely control the range
of motion instead of basically
conforming our range of motion to a
machine because that makes no sense
oops I don't know where my volume is on
it's never on does your program require
gym ok so for those of you that are new
here I am creating a program a fitness
and nutrition program just for petite
women and I have just launched it on
Kickstarter
last week we actually raised way past
the 50% funding goal in the first three
days and we're up to five thousand
dollars in seven days and my funding
goal is seven thousand five hundred so
we're almost there if you have not
checked out this campaign yet I would
love for you to go take a look in the
link below so what this person is asking
me is if my fitness program requires a
gym membership so no it does not
although I do recommend that you do your
workouts in the gym because I think that
environment can have a really big impact
on your results and also keep you
accountable I would say you can also do
it at home because there's an entire
section on exercise alternatives to do
at home and because we don't use
machines in the plan for reasons I said
earlier all of the exercises are done
with free weights making it very
accessible to do when where all you
really need are dumbbells and a few
other pieces of equipment like
resistance bands okay next up do you
wear headphones at the gym and if so
what Brad do you use so yes I do I use I
wonder if they're nearby so voila
I use beats by dre power beats they're
the power beats
these I've been using for I don't know
about a year now there are other ones
that I also use that are via sound
electronics they sent me them for free
to do a product review and they are
actually like these aren't truly
Wireless I mean they they come around
your neck and they attach which I
actually kind of like but the the ones
that sound electronic sent me are truly
wireless they're like buds that just go
in your ear and I find that those ones
work really well those are called ex
shocks if you want to check them out I
really like the music on your Instagram
videos you have a playlist anywhere
right now I just have my own personal
playlist and Spotify but I would be
happy to that's actually a really great
idea I'd love to kind of open up my
Spotify to every one and also maybe make
some curated smolitics play this
definitely give this video a like if you
would like to see some created music
playlist on Spotify for free do you have
any workouts I can do in the meantime
while I wait for your program to come
out do you recommend any other program
ok guys so I have tons and tons and tons
of content on my Instagram tons of
workouts that you can check out at
smolitics that's my Instagram handle as
far as other workouts there's like a
couple on my youtube but generally this
will be really this book will have you
know twelve weeks of programming so I
truly don't recommend any other programs
if you're petite that's obviously why I
made my own because there doesn't exist
in the meantime I would say if you're
new to lifting weights I would say start
getting into it just go on YouTube
educate yourself watch some videos that
you could do at home maybe with a pair
of dumbbells just start to get
comfortable with the idea of lifting
weights that's what I would say you
should focus on for the next two months
while I'm working on producing this
amazing program do you have any strong
opinions about intermittent fasting I've
been looking into it some people swear
by another say it's BS okay great
question because this is going to turn
into some a much larger answer okay guys
get ready for this piece of knowledge
that is going to rock your mind every
single diet that exists whether it's
keto intermittent fasting tracking your
macros
I don't know some celebrities diet all
of them do the same thing and that is
they in some way or another trick you
into eating less calories in a day
because the bottom line is you will gain
weight if you're over your caloric
maintenance and you will lose weight if
you're under your caloric maintenance so
it's called being a surplus or deficit
so with intermittent fasting the way
this works is you are effect you are
essentially increasing the window of
time of where you do not eat food so say
you finish your last meal at 9:00 p.m.
you wake up the next day you don't eat
for 10 hours so your sleep is also fast
if you think about it your body is not
eating while you're sleeping so wake up
and say you don't eat till 12:00 or 1:00
p.m. and you have a 12 hour or a you
have a 10 or 11-hour fasting period so
what this does is it crunches all the
time that you do have left in the rest
of the day into a smaller window so you
end up eating less food really that's
what happens so say you know you you
don't eat till 1 p.m. between 1 and 9
you're eating your three meals but it
senses a shorter period of time you're
less hungry you're going to just end up
eating less so what's happening is it's
tricking you into eating less that's
basically what's happening however
intermittent fasting does have some
other benefits aside from dieting it's
been shown scientifically to improve
your gut health and increase your gut
flora I personally have never done it I
have lots of friends and other personal
trainers and colleagues that have done
it totally swear by it but it's all what
works for you and each diet is going to
use a different strategy to help you get
your calories down to below maintenance
and whatever strategy it is that works
for you is the one you should stick with
because they're really all doing the
same thing just using different methods
I'm not really petite I'm five actually
five seven and kind of tall would your
program still be good for me okay this
is a great question because I do have
some tall women that like my content and
just enjoy my page so I want to start
off by saying that smolitics is a
totally inclusive community open to
everybody so if you're tall you are so
welcome to be on my page and
a part of the community that being said
my program is completely tailored to
petite women
it speaks to petite women it speaks to
the pain the pain points that we suffer
whether it be in the gym or just general
confidence being having a small stature
but the principles I use in my book they
are grounded in science and because it
is a beginners or intermediate strength
training program I believe because it's
grounded in exercise science that pretty
much anyone would see a good result they
would get results using my program that
said a lot of the efficacy of a program
has to do is is has to do with if it
speaks to you personally and being that
my program speaks to the petite female
it may not resonate with you but if it
does resonate with you I would say go
for it and let me know how it goes
there's nothing in it that would be
dangerous for a tall person in any way
it's all still exercise science strength
training focus on revving up the
metabolism and the areas that it's
tailored to petite is mostly in the
training modality and ways to get the
metabolism up since us petites do have
slower metabolisms but obviously having
a fast metabolism no matter what your
height would be beneficial so if it's
something you want to check out I'm not
gonna say don't do it but that being
said the whole book won't be speaking to
you directly so that's something to
think about
April I track my calories for a while
but ever since seeing calories as a
number it's been really hard for me I've
developed a bench I end up just wanting
to eat everything and feel too full and
unproductive after what can I do to help
this okay so binge eating is a disorder
and it's something that a lot of women
and men experience I would say first and
foremost always consult with your doctor
I'm never going to pretend that I'm a
doctor and I can help you with any
medical problems that you may be
suffering from I think everyone at some
point in their life might have
experienced overeating of course binging
as a disorder is not just overeating it
is a compulsion to eat everything and
finish every meal even if you're already
full so I can't say that I have suffered
from binge eating so I cannot give you
advice on this the one thing I would say
though is that if you found that track
your macros tracking your calories
trigger this for you I would suggest
never really tracking your map macros
are not tracking your calories anymore
because it's clearly not helping you
achieve that balanced healthy lifestyle
that you were seeking so I would say
it's that's a that's a good learning
moment for you that that counting
calories triggered this for you and this
won't trigger this will be trigger for
everyone but for some people it can turn
into sort of an obsessive thing another
problem that could have happened is you
could have been you could have estimated
your caloric intake and been pretty
inaccurate which is caught very common
and then you could have been severely
under eating which almost always Lin
leads to binge eating later because we
become so deprived and so hungry and all
we think about is food that we end up
going and grabbing food then we just
break our diet we crash so I would say
that if you're tracking calories and
you're hungry all the time starving
starving starving
you probably calculated them wrong and
you should reassess or consult a doctor
or a health professional someone that
you know knows how to count your
calories correctly and that will also
help you avoid the desire to binge when
you're tracking your macros so I hope
that helps I suffer a lot from Jim's
timid ation when it comes to using
weights at the gym yes girl me too
everybody that I have spoken to at some
point or another has felt this way
especially petite women so you are not
alone I promise you that I can remember
years ago before I got into strength
training even when I was a I was I've
been a competitive athlete for eighteen
years but I didn't always strength train
I remember that part of the gym just
seemed like this like foreign country
like the man's section that I just was
not going to venture into and when I was
first getting into it I got a lot I felt
at least like everyone was looking at me
it was so uncomfortable I just felt so
exposed so I totally understand what
you're saying my best advice for you is
to still spend time there even if you're
uncomfortable because the more time you
spend in the man section of gym though
less aware you're going to be of men
looking at you of kind of feeling
insecure but I'm not saying go in there
and do a full workout being
uncomfortable I'm saying a little bit at
a time so go in there grab a pair of
dumbbells in the man section and then
get out of there
turn around walk around to the corner of
the gym and go do your workout somewhere
else where you have some privacy you can
create this nice little environment for
yourself and there's not creepy dudes
looking at whatever you're doing and you
know making comments about your form or
whatever unsolicited things that you
don't want to hear or even if they're
not saying anything you just still feel
bothered that is a great hack that way
you're spending a little bit more time
in the man section which will get you
more comfortable with it with time and
then you're not really overdoing it
you're just grabbing your weights and
you're busting out of there to go do do
your thing somewhere else yeah but I
would say avoiding it at all costs will
make the gym tip addition grow the more
you avoid it the scare more afraid
you'll be so always just try to confront
your fear a little bit a little bit at a
time and in no time you will be in the
gym section in the man section just
grinding through your workout and you
won't notice them anymore I don't notice
them anymore what was I saying man I
don't know put some headphones in that
also helps a lot do you make any small
etics apparel I love this question so I
don't right now but I've been getting a
lot of requests for sweatshirts
I think hats please let me know in the
comments what you would want to see
because that is the thing I'm working on
right now I'm working on developing some
swag for the short girl gang and if you
would like it to say just small etics or
short girl gang or short looks good on
you any of my little tag lines let me
know in the comments so coming soon
what are some small etics approved
Fitness courses through class paths ok
so I get this question a lot a lot of my
girlfriends are on class pass hitting it
up the first thing I'm gonna say about
class pass unfortunately a boutique
fitness in my opinion is not going to
get you the results that you're looking
for
Boutique Fitness is great if you're
sticking to the same class every day for
times a week doing the same exercises
however if you're going and you're
hopping around from class to class what
you're getting effectively is a calorie
burn and front through the exercise but
you're not going to be really working on
strength we're really working on
changing your body in a really visible
way except through weight loss and
that's because in order to have a body
recomposition to gain strength and
muscle you need to be doing the same
exercises and increasing your weights
every week so it's sort of tedius and
pouring but that's why you need a
strength training program you need to be
in a program and not just doing random
workouts in order to see progress of
course it's always dependent on your
goal that being said there are some
studios that I've tried out I haven't
tried all of them that I thought were
great for petite women and one of those
would be probably Orangetheory fitness
that's a great workout because there's
interval training which is really
important for petite women it really
helps get them metabolism going up
metabolism increasing and the other
thing is their workout out of so many
I've tried is very metabolically
challenging they have strength training
they have high intensity interval
training it's accurate I love that
there's a science component to it you
can see your heart rate so I would say
orange cherry is good there are some I
won't say the ones that are bad in my
opinion there are some that are kind of
unsafe and I think you should be always
if you're learning new exercises or new
new moves
make sure your instructor is giving you
attention and is really paying attention
to you and your form because if you're
lifting weights in a class and you're
not sure what you're doing that can be
dangerous and also ineffective as far as
other ones that I'm thinking about a lot
of boxing classes are also really
metabolically challenging workouts so I
would say boxing is great fencing yeah
it's cycling and not the best for
petites you'll get a good calorie burn
but you're not going to be really
gaining much strength you're not going
to be working on your upper body that
much the choreography can be a little
bit risky and on 'save at times however
it's
entertaining us heck and I love
SoulCycle because it's fun so don't
forget the fun elements fun is a really
important component of fitness and if
you're not having fun then it's less
likely that you're gonna stick with the
program for a while so go to booty
classes for fun but then have a strength
training program that you're also doing
on the side maybe once or twice a week
in addition to those booty classes
that's my best advice to you how do you
work up to being able to do push-ups
because I can only do about four
question mark ok good question really
good question
the way that you're going to be able to
increase your muscular endurance
increase your strength so you can do
more push-ups is by doing more push-ups
I know it's crazy
say you did 3 or 4 sets of 5 push-ups 3
times a week and you kept increasing
your reps you will be able to get up
into a much higher rep range over time
it's all about consistency and
increasing the intensity over time so
that you're you're keeping your body
adapting to the challenges you're
imposing on it and that's what it's all
about
ok so you want to be able to do more
push-ups then you got to do more
push-ups that's really what it comes
down to there's other accessory exercise
you can do push-ups are obviously a
chest and arm exercise so you can do
chest press to help improve your chest
strength you can supplement it with
other exercises and that will help as
well where do you find leggings for
petites well I did a whole youtube video
on it so I'll link that below as well
and you can check that out after it has
a lot of brands and it was a massive
petite legging haul I've been four nine
since age 12 and I know I'm not getting
any taller people continuously look
dynein for my size always treating me as
if I'm a little girl I used to go to the
gym but ultimately I stopped because I
felt like I was constantly being judged
or people always looking at me because I
didn't know what I was doing you're
truly an inspiration oh and I want to
know what our short girls can do in
terms of confidence and feeling small
Wow okay thank you so much for that
question
this is a huge part of small etics and
of being small of having us
stature whether you're short small bones
petite whatever it is if you if people
are physically looking down on you it
has an effect on your life and a lot of
people don't understand this so this is
something that I've experienced to
experience sizes 'm in my in the
workplace and my old corporate job I
experienced it in my athletic career
piece being underestimated being made
fun of and being so small but the more
you try and the more you do what you
love despite what people are saying the
more confidence you end up having in the
long run you just develop this sort of
fierce armor and one of the best ways
that you can develop this confidence is
in the gym if you are working on
strength training in the gym you are
going to start seeing how strong your
body is and you'll be able to stop or
you'll be able to see your body as
strong and stead of small or strong and
small at the same time which is even
better because we are never just one
thing we can always be contradicting
things and petite women often are two
women often are really really big people
obviously inside so I would say start
strength training and just wash your
body grow watch it transform wash
yourself be able to lift really heavy
weights and kind of re kind of just re
imagine what you're capable of because
even if you say oh I know what I'm
capable of and stuff when you start
lifting you start feeling powerful and
this really translates into a deep inner
confidence that I think can help a lot
of petite women my last question is what
is the metabolism great question because
I'm always talking about metabolism so
the metabolism is essentially the set of
chemical processes that occur inside
your body to sustain your life what does
this really mean these are basically the
the processes of breaking down nutrients
and turning them into fuel so it's
basically the conversion of what you're
putting in your body and then it breaks
it down into fuel in the form of energy
that then you
you then expend either through your
resting metabolic rate or through
activity and fitness so your metabolism
is what sustains you and if your
metabolism is fast you are essentially
able to eat more calories in a day and
if it's slower then you have less
calories in a day that you can play with
and this is when it comes into a really
big this is when it becomes really
important for petite women because our
height we are shorter our metabolisms
are slower and therefore if we if a
sedentary petite woman only has 1200
calories you can eat in the day that is
like a cheeseburger at some chain
restaurants and she will end up having I
mean she's not gonna just have that one
meal so then she'll end up really
overeating for the rest of the day and
have no idea that she's overeating it
can be really easy to just dip into that
caloric surplus when you don't have that
many calories to begin with and that's
why my program is all about increasing
that ceiling for your metabolism so that
you can eat more make gains in the gym
get the net amount of nutrients you need
to progress and get that shed that fat
off and get your muscle in there and
also muscle burns more calories at rest
in fat which is why strength training is
also so important for petite petite
womens because then you're just if the
more muscle you have the more calories
you're just burning doing nothing and
that really contributes to revving up
our metabolism as well yeah that's all
the questions that I'm gonna get to
today if you have any additional ones
please let me know in the comments below
but this was so fun I hope you guys
enjoyed it and if you like this video
please subscribe below to my channel and
yeah thank you guys for watching I'll
see you next time
bye
[Music]